Scope and interpretation

This delivery follows the updated Ruby-entry argument-provenance objective,
including the user's clarification to include pointer-only flows. The earlier
A-E working-set table is superseded. entry-argument-sites.csv is the requested
table; its JSONL companion has the same rows. A header-only table means zero
accepted pairs under the recorded conservative transfer rules.

Setup

The GitLab clone is shallow and sparse, pinned at the default-branch HEAD observed
at the start of this task. Gemfile.lock is copied without evaluating Ruby.
All 781 RubyGems packages matched their Gemfile.lock SHA256 checksums; 40 PATH gems
were read from the pinned GitLab checkout. Packages were unpacked with Python
archive readers. Gem installation, gemspec evaluation, extension builds, dynamic
loading, and application execution were not performed.

Source scope

files-scanned.csv identifies the gem, version, path, source SHA256, platform
variants, and scope reason. Identical source bytes at the same gem/version/path
are deduplicated across platform packages. gems with no in-scope C files appear
in gem-extension-inventory.csv. C/CC/CPP/H files are scanned under ext/, gRPC's
src/ruby/ext/, and native source directories explicitly associated with these
extensions by their build configuration. Associated roots include gRPC's
src/include/third_party, rugged's vendor/libgit2, prism and rbs src/include, and
Nokogiri's gumbo-parser/src. This is a source superset, not a determination of
which platform-specific files a runtime build links. Separate extconf.rb build
roots within a gem restrict helper resolution; common native files are shared.

Nested source archives are not expanded. This limits native-library coverage for
gpgme, Nokogiri, rbtrace, re2, and ruby-magic. Their archive paths are recorded in
files-skipped.csv. Ruby fixture ZIPs, tests/examples outside extension trees,
symlink members, absent generated sources, and files outside the selected native
roots are excluded. No source is fetched by executing extconf.rb recipes.

Entries

The six rb_define_* registration families requested by the user are indexed.
Each registration retains receiver expression, Ruby name, C function expression,
arity, definition location, platform provenance, and binding status. A receiver
expression is not resolved to a Ruby constant or application class.
Unexpanded registration macros, ambiguous/missing C definitions, and unsupported
callback signatures remain inventory records and do not become proven roots.
Macros that hide the registration call itself are not expanded into registrations.

For nonnegative arity, C parameter zero is self and C parameter i+1 corresponds
to Ruby argument i. For arity -1, argc is metadata and argv is an argument-vector
marker; constant argv[i] and fixed outputs of literal rb_scan_args formats map
to Ruby argument i. For arity -2, the second C parameter is the argument array;
constant rb_ary_entry indices are modeled as positional argument extraction.
Self, allocator callbacks, argc, keywords, blocks, rest arguments without a fixed
index, and arbitrary dynamic argv indices do not seed a positional argument.

Transfers and slots

The tracer preserves argument origins through local aliases, casts, arithmetic,
direct intra-extension helper arguments/returns, and simple scalar output
parameters. It follows arbitrary acyclic helper depth, rather than stopping at
one helper. The note records direct/via one helper/via N helpers and the path.
Recursion is unresolved. File-local static definitions take precedence; ambiguous
cross-file definitions are unresolved. It does not follow libc or Ruby-runtime
implementations, and does not infer the return value of an external call from its
input. This includes Ruby conversion APIs whose implementation is not present.

Literal assignments, sizeof, and recognized object-length operations terminate
the corresponding argument origin. In particular, string/array-length macros
are treated as rewrites to a local length, not as unchanged entry values. Struct
or object length/size field extraction also terminates an origin. General
heap/field aliases, indirect reads, member dispatch, and function-pointer calls
are unresolved; they are never used to justify a kept row. Explicit scalar
output parameters are the limited exception to indirect-assignment exclusion.

Only simple, unambiguous local scalar macro expressions are substituted. Complex
macros, macros containing calls or statements, token pasting, stringification,
configuration-dependent definitions, and Ruby macros from headers outside the
extension source corpus are unresolved. The allocation macros specifically
requested as sites are recognized by their signature without expansion.

Copy count slots are explicit lengths in memcpy/memmove/strncpy/strncat. Bounded
format destination bounds are count slots, while the format itself is a separate
format slot. Literal formats exclude that format slot, not an unrelated count or
pointer slot. Unrecognized *printf/*scanf signatures are inventoried as sites
but have no inferred format position. Recognized Ruby format equivalents are
listed in scripts/catalog.py. Unbounded strcpy/strcat expose pointer slots.
Source and destination pointer slots, format destinations, and realloc's input
pointer are included according to the user's pointer clarification.

Allocator size slots require the specified arithmetic/narrowing and later-copy
relationship in the same C function. The copy destination must match the assigned
allocation pointer and the copy count must match a pre-arithmetic operand.
Intervening assignments to that pointer break the relationship. Narrowing uses
declared local integer ranks/fixed-width type names; ABI widths are not proven.
A standalone sizeof is excluded; input arithmetic containing a sizeof operand
can still be unbound. No allocator/copy overflow or impact is asserted.

Indexed assignments include subscript assignments and *(p + i) =. The index rule
checks the store's physical line or a condition ending on the immediately
preceding physical line. It recognizes conventional length/count/size/capacity
names, n, numeric bounds, and sizeof. This is a lexical comparison rule, not a
proof of a valid index or buffer capacity. Compound assignments are outside scope.

Limits and counts

This is a conservative static provenance catalog. It does not solve path
conditions, runtime type checks, alias graphs, C++ overloads, or preprocessing.
Unconditional returns stop a block; conditional branch environments are merged.
Loops are modeled as one symbolic iteration with the incoming state retained;
transfers needing multiple iterations may be missed. Switch, goto, and conditional
compilation are recorded as unresolved where reached. Functions with parser
recovery are not used to justify kept paths. Parser diagnostics include generated
headers and initializer fragments that are not standalone translation units.
Unparsed lexical call candidates and macro replacement tokens are counted
separately; they are not claimed to be proven calls. No exploitability, external
input exposure, application reachability, or absence of defects is inferred.

entry_points counts registration sites, including unresolved bindings. sites
counts parsed selected calls/indexed assignments with a parsed enclosing function.
kept_pairs counts distinct registration/site pairs; kept_rows also distinguishes
Ruby argument index, slot kind, and source/destination slot. unresolved_hops is
argument-specific and can include multiple arguments at the same call. It is
separate from unresolved registration/index issues. extensions_scanned counts
C-extension gems; extension_build_roots counts their native build roots.
inventory-summary.json and files-scanned.csv retain a broader intermediate syntax
inventory used by the slot predicates; final site counts are in summary.json and
sites.csv. The updated table contains none of the former A-E labels.

Reproduction (analysis tooling only)

Use the SHA in provenance.json, not a moving default branch, for a repeat run.
Install scripts/requirements.txt in an analysis Python environment. With the
pinned sparse GitLab clone at GITLAB_SOURCE and a download cache at SOURCE_CACHE:

  python scripts/fetch_sources.py --gitlab GITLAB_SOURCE --cache SOURCE_CACHE --out OUTPUT_DIR
  python scripts/catalog.py --out OUTPUT_DIR
  python scripts/entry_catalog.py --out OUTPUT_DIR
  python scripts/finish_delivery.py

finish_delivery.py operates on its parent catalog directory. All tests parse inert
C snippets and verify static transfers; they do not compile or execute the snippets.
The source cache used for this run is /workspace/static-catalog-cache and is not
committed. fetch-manifest.json records exact package URLs and package checksums.
